Edited tutorial-flow-components-binder-beans (#418)
vaadin/flow-and-components-documentation: documentation/binding-data/tutorial-flow-components-binder-beans.asciidoc

title: Binding Beans to Forms
order: 4

> layout: page

Reviewer: @pleku @tmattsso I think we maybe already discussed this, but please refresh my bad memory. Are these subnav things still used somewhere or not?

Reviewer 2: unless @pleku objects, it can be removed. No one seems to have any idea what those things do.

---

= Binding Beans to Forms

> Business objects are typically implemented as JavaBeans or POJOs in an application. `Binder` supports both implementations. 

Author: I've updated the text

----

[NOTE]
Be cautious when using strings to identify properties. A typo in the string, or a subsequent changes to the setter and getter method names, will result in a runtime exception.

=== Using JSR 303 Bean Validation

You can use `BeanValidationBinder` if you prefer to use JSR 303 Bean Validation annotations such as `Max`, `Min`, `Size`, etc.

`BeanValidationBinder` extends `Binder`, and therefore has the same API, but its implementation automatically adds a bean validator which takes care of all JSR 303 constraints.

> To use Bean Validation annotations, you need a JSR 303 implementation like Hibernate Validator available in your classpath. You can use the following dependency in Maven:

Reviewer: We could add here a not that the validator is often already available.

```suggestion
To use Bean Validation annotations, you need a JSR 303 implementation like Hibernate Validator available in your classpath. If your environment, like Java EE container, don't provide the implementation, you can use the following dependency in Maven:
```

Author: I've updated the text.

  .bind(Person::getYearOfBirth, Person::setYearOfBirth);
----

==== Defining Constraints on the Bean Level

// The original text was difficult to understand. I copied this code example from the Hibernate docs and referenced them as the source. The original text just linked to the example. We could leave it like this or amend the code. I'm very unsure about the explanation here.   

As an alternative to defining constraint annotations for specific properties, you can define constraints on the bean level.

> *Example*: Defining bean-level constraint annotations. _Source: https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/validator/5.4/reference/en-US/html_single/#validator-gettingstarted-createmodel[Hibernate Validator 5.4.2 - Applying constraints]_

Reviewer: This example has nothing to do with bean-level constraints. Just normal property constraints. It is related just to the next paragraph (required indicator).

[source, java]
----

> package org.hibernate.validator.referenceguide.chapter01;

Reviewer: I have no idea why build fails on this code snippet, but let's see if we need this at all...

import javax.validation.constraints.Min;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;
import javax.validation.constraints.Size;

public class Car {

    @NotNull
    private String manufacturer;

    @NotNull
    @Size(min = 2, max = 14)
    private String licensePlate;

    @Min(2)
    private int seatCount;

    public Car(String manufacturer, String licencePlate, int seatCount) {
        this.manufacturer = manufacturer;
        this.licensePlate = licencePlate;
        this.seatCount = seatCount;
    }

    //getters and setters ...
}
----

> 

Reviewer: @pleku Do we nowadays support bean level JSR 303 validators ? If not (as I have thought), this comment is really confusing here. I guess that is why @ruthstocks re-wrote this part into something that it is today.

----

=== Validating Fields

> The `bindInstanceFields` method does not support validation. If you want to add validation, use `BeanValidationBinder` instead of the `bindInstanceFields` method.

Reviewer: AFAIK this is (and was) not true. bindInstanceFields don't support programmatic validation, but it sure does support JSR-303 validation. When you are using that, you need to use BeanValidationBinder anyways and then it is just fine to use bindInstanceFields method. 

The whole section also should be improved (by to core team first as they know how it works). I think this should underline that you can use this method together with manual binding, if you need custom programatic validator for certain properties, but the rest are fine. I'll try to rephrase this, but @pleku must check that this becomes valid.

```suggestion
The `bindInstanceFields` method does not support adding programmatic validation bindings. If you are using JSR-303 validators, they work fine when using `BeanValidationBinder`. Also, you can bind properties that need validators manually and then bind all remaining fields using bindInstanceFields method.
```

@pleku Do we completely miss documentation for the "forMemberField" style configuration? I think I have used that and it looks like it supports also configuring validators, making this still plain FUD.
